-"WAKING INFINITY."
A SHOW ABOUT CONSCIOUS ART BEING
A VEHICLE FOR MORPHING REALITY
AND BECOMING THE AUTHOR
OF YOUR LIFE.
IN APRIL OF 2008,
JUST A FEW MONTHS AFTER
RELEASING "ESOTERIC AGENDA,"
I WAS CALLED
INTO THE AMAZON RAINFOREST
TO MEET A SHAMAN
NAMED DON ROBERT
TO EXPERIENCE AYAHUASCA.
THIS BEGAN AN ENTRY
INTO THE DEEPEST HEALING PERIOD
I'VE EVER ENCOUNTERED.
AFTERWARDS, I WAS OFFERED
TO TRAVEL
TO EXPERIENCE A SACRED CACTUS
CALLED HUACHUMA.
I HAD TO DECLINE THIS OFFER
AT THE TIME,
AND NOW FIVE YEARS LATER,
RETURNING TO PERU,
I FINALLY HAD THE CHANCE TO
EXPERIENCE A HUACHUMA CEREMONY,
LED BY SERGEY BARANOV.
SYNCHRONICITY WINS,
AS I FIND THAT SERGEY WAS CALLED
TO THE RAINFOREST, AS WELL,
TO MEET THE VERY SAME
AYAHUASQUERO, DON ROBERT.
THIS IS THE STORY
OF HOW SERGEY WAS LED
INTO THE USE OF THESE PLANTS
AND THE ENSUING PATH
THAT HE HAS CHOSEN.
ENJOY.
-FIND A WAY TO TRANSCEND DEATH.
MY SEARCH FOR SPIRITUALITY --
THAT WAS OUT OF FEAR OF DEATH.
TO ME, IT'S A DELUSION.
I DON'T...BELIEVE
WITH THAT THINKING
THAT THERE IS SOMETHING
AFTER DEATH,
BECAUSE I'VE SEEN THAT THERE WAS
JUST NOTHING AFTER DEATH.
EVERYTHING WAS ACTUALLY HERE.
SO, FOR ME, IT'S A COMPLETELY
DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVE
FOR ME IN MY LIFE NOW.
YOUR CONSCIOUSNESS,
YOUR SELF-AWARENESS,
YOUR INDIVIDUALITY IS UNIQUE.
THERE IS NO OTHER LIKE YOU.
AND THERE WILL NEVER BE ONE.
SO THAT WAS VERY IMPORTANT
FOR ME TO REALIZE THAT.
AND I THOUGHT, "IF I COME BACK,
"I GO THROUGH THAT
AND ACTUALLY WILL BE ALIVE,
"THEN THAT REALLY WOULD BE
MY LIFE IN THAT WAY --
IN A DIFFERENT WAY,
WITH SO MUCH MORE AWARENESS."
APPRECIATION, YOU KNOW?
I'M JUST LOOKING BACK NOW,
AND I'M THINKING, LIKE,
"YOU KNOW, THAT WAS REALLY --
THAT WAS ACTUALLY THE BEST TO
HAPPEN TO ME," YOU KNOW?
THE BEST, BECAUSE IF THAT
WOULDN'T HAVE HAPPENED,
I STILL WOULD LIVE IN ILLUSION.
NOW I HAVE NOT,
NOR DO I HAVE ANY FEAR.
THAT'S THE BEAUTY OF IT.
YOU UNDERSTAND HOW
THAT IS FINAL,
AND YOU'RE NOT AFRAID
OF THAT ANYMORE.
YOU LIVE YOUR LIFE IN PEACE.
[ Echoing ] ...PEACE.
MY NAME IS SERGEY BARANOV.
I AM AN AUTHOR OF A BOOK,
"PATH."
AND I'M ALSO A HUACHUMERA,
WHICH MEANS
THAT I WORK WITH HUACHUMA.
AND HUACHUMA
IS THE ORIGINAL NAME
OF THE SACRED CACTUS, SAN PEDRO.
WHEN THE SPANISH CAME HERE,
THEY FOUND THAT,
AND THEY TRIED THE MEDICINE,
AND THEY REALIZED HEAVEN.
THAT'S WHY THEY CALLED
THE MEDICINE "SAN PEDRO"
BECAUSE SAINT PETER --
SAINT PETER WAS THE ONE WHO WAS
HAVING THE KEY TO HEAVEN.
HE WAS GIVEN THE KEY
FROM HEAVEN.
SO THIS MEDICINE, THEY SAW IT
AS THE KEY TO HEAVEN.
THAT'S WHY THEY CALL IT
SAN PEDRO.
BUT THE REAL, AUTHENTIC,
ORIGINAL, ANCIENT NAME
OF THIS CACTUS -- HUACHUMA,
WHICH MEANS "VISION" IN ONE
OF THE QUECHUA DIALECTS.
AND WHEN YOU DRINK
THIS MEDICINE, YOU UNDERSTAND
WHY THEY CALL IT THAT --
BECAUSE IT OPENS YOUR VISION.
YOU BECOME, YOU KNOW --
IT'S THE VISION
OF YOUR THIRD EYE
AS, YOU KNOW, PEOPLE
FAMILIAR WITH IT SAY.
BUT IT'S MORE THAN THAT.
IT'S VISION THROUGH THE LIES.
IT'S VISION OF YOUR LIFE.
IT'S VISION OF THE WORLD
AS THE WORLD REALLY IS.
IT'S LIKE A PROJECTOR
THAT YOU TURN ON,
AND IT CAN SEE
ANYWHERE YOU LOOK.
WELL, I WAS LOOKING FOR SHAMANS,
YOU KNOW?
I WAS LOOKING FOR REAL SHAMANS.
I KNEW THAT THIS IS MY PATH.
I KNEW THAT THIS IS WHERE
THE KEY TO SELF-KNOWLEDGE IS.
I KNEW INTUITIVELY THAT THIS IS
THE REAL SPIRITUAL PATH
THAT I WANT TO WALK.
I JUST NEED TO FIND REAL PEOPLE.
REAL PEOPLE.
AND I STARTED TO LOOK FOR THEM,
AND I FOUND THEM QUICKLY,
YOU KNOW.
AND RIGHT AWAY, I FOUND ONE GUY
THAT WAS MY FIRST TEACHER,
REALLY.
HE LIVES IN IQUITOS.
GREAT GUY.
YOU KNOW, HE'S CERTAINLY LAID
A NEW FOUNDATION
FOR MY SPIRITUAL HOUSE,
YOU KNOW?
AND I MET HIM,
AND I JUST KNEW RIGHT AWAY,
"THAT THE REAL GUY, YOU KNOW?"
AND HE WAS KNOWLEDGEABLE.
I SAW HIS EYES.
WAS A REAL GUY, YOU KNOW?
I FELT IT.
I CALLED HIM RIGHT AWAY,
WE TALKED,
WE HAD A VERY GOOD
PHILOSOPHICAL DISCUSSION.
I KNEW THAT I NEEDED TO COME SEE
HIM, SO I FLEW RIGHT AWAY.
FOR FIVE WEEKS, STARTED
IN THE RAINFOREST IN IQUITOS.
FOR TWO WEEKS,
I WAS GOING THROUGH THAT
AND THEN COMING TO ANDES.
THAT WAS HIM COMING HERE,
ACTUALLY, WHERE I LIVE NOW,
DOING HUACHUMA RIGHT HERE.
DIFFERENT PLACES.
BUT FIRST TIME I DRANK HUACHUMA
IN THE JUNGLE.
THAT WAS A TRANSITION TIME
BEFORE AYAHUASCA
AND COMING HERE.
AND I KNEW RIGHT AWAY
THIS IS MY MEDICINE, YOU KNOW?
KNEW RIGHT AWAY.
20 MINUTES PASSED,
I BEGIN TO FEEL THAT I KNEW
THIS WHAT WAS I LOOKING FOR
ALL MY LIFE, INTUITIVELY.
THIS IS MY MEDICINE.
THIS IS MY HEART RIGHT HERE.
AND TO BE HONEST, I GOT SCARED.
I GOT SCARED OF THAT...
...ENORMOUS, ENORMOUS SCALE
OF THIS MEDICINE AND DEPTH
WE SHALL INTUITIVELY BEGIN
TO FEEL RIGHT AWAY.
AND I THINK ALSO WHAT WAS SCARY,
IT WAS JUST SCARY
TO WAKE UP TO MYSELF.
I WAS WORKING
WITH MEXICAN SHAMANS,
WITH RITUAL SHAMANS,
RITUAL PEYOTEROS
WORKING WITH PEYOTE,
IN MEXICO
THE WHOLE YEAR OF 2008.
AND DURING MY LAST VISIT,
THAT WAS NOVEMBER 15, 2008,
I CAME, AND WE HAD
A VERY STRANGE CEREMONY.
AND, UH...THAT CEREMONY
WAS VERY SIGNIFICANT.
I FELT SOMETHING WAS
A LITTLE TIGHT IN THE AIR.
SOME TENSION WAS AROUND, AND IT
DIDN'T FEEL VERY FRIENDLY.
I EVEN REMEMBER THINKING, LIKE,
"MAN, MAYBE I SHOULD GO
THIS TIME.
"MAYBE I'LL JUST STAY A FEW DAYS
AND THEN JUST FLY BACK
TO CALIFORNIA."
I JUST STAYED. SO WHATEVER.
I'LL JUST GO THROUGH THAT,
YOU KNOW?
SO, WE HAD A CEREMONY.
I MAKE THE FIRE,
AS I WAS USUALLY DOING.
WE STARTED, ALL WAS GOOD,
NORMAL.
FOUR HOURS IN IT --
LIKE, EXACTLY, ABOUT MIDNIGHT --
I WAS ASKED TO BLESS THE WATER
AND SHARE THE WATER,
GIVE THE WATER, MOTHER OF EARTH,
GRANDFATHER FIRE.
AND THAT WAS JUST THE RITUAL.
IT WAS A FULL-MOON CEREMONY,
AND IT WAS VERY SPECIAL.
AND I BLESSED THE WATER,
AND BEFORE THAT,
THE SHAMAN I WAS WITH,
HE ASKED ME TO LOOK AT MY FACE
IN THE WATER
AND TRY TO REMEMBER MYSELF.
ALL RIGHT. I SAID, "OKAY."
SO I LOOK INTO THE BUCKET
OF THE WATER,
AND I LOOK AT MY FACE,
WHICH WAS KIND OF BLURRED,
YOU KNOW, IN THE DARK, AND ALL
THERE IS IS THE FIRE THERE.
BUT LOOKING AT THAT, TRYING TO
ACTUALLY SEE MY FACE,
I FELT THAT SOMEBODY
WAS ACTUALLY LOOKING
THROUGH THAT IMAGE AT ME,
AND THAT WASN'T ME.
THAT WAS SOMEBODY ELSE.
THAT WAS CREEPY.
I GO, "OKAY. YOU KNOW..."
SIT DOWN,
I ADDED SOME MORE WOOD,
AND I WAS SITTING AND SAYING,
I REMEMBER THAT THOSE WERE
MY LAST WORDS.
I WAS SAYING, "PEYOTE IS REAL."
"PEYOTE IS REAL."
AND AS I SAID THAT,
I JUMPED OUT OF MY MAT,
FEELING THAT SOMETHING STUNG ME
RIGHT IN MY THIGHS --
BOTH THIGHS, JUST 2 INCHES
BELOW MY GENITALS.
REALIZING THAT YOU ARE DYING --
AND, REALLY, YOU ARE DYING --
THAT'S IT.
IT'S NOT THE IMAGINATION.
YOU'RE NOT THINKING
YOU'RE DYING.
YOU KNOW, SOME PEOPLE
JUST GET SICK A LITTLE.
NO, YOU ARE DYING.
YOU ARE --
YOU'VE BEEN STUNG
BY DEADLY SCORPIONS,
YOU'RE FULL OF VENOM,
AND YOUR BODY'S SHUTTING DOWN.
THAT'S IT.
SHAMAN SAID, "DON'T PANIC.
YOU'LL MAKE IT ONLY WORSE.
JUST RELAX AND GO WITH IT."
SO, ABOUT 20 MINUTES,
I WAS PANICKING.
OF COURSE,
HOW WOULD YOU NOT PANIC
IF YOU FIND YOURSELF
IN THE MIDDLE OF NOWHERES,
SIERRA MADRE, MEXICO,
WITH INDIANS,
AND THERE IS NO HOSPITAL,
NOTHING?
THERE IS NO HELP.
I MEAN, YOU'RE ON YOUR OWN.
AND HE SAID,
"I CAN'T DO NOTHING ABOUT THAT.
I CAN'T GET THE VENOM OUT.
YOU HAVE TO GO THROUGH THAT."
AND WITH EVERY HOUR, IT JUST
BECOME ABSOLUTELY HORRIBLE.
I WAS FEELING LIKE I'M DYING.
THAT'S IT.
MY BODY BECOMES
JUST COMPLETELY PARALYZED.
NOTHING.
YOU JUST LAY DOWN,
AND YOU CAN BREATHE
THROUGH YOUR NOSE, NOTHING ELSE.
YOU CAN'T OPEN YOUR EYES,
NOTHING.
IT WAS JUST AGONY.
18 HOURS OF AGONY.
JUST HELL.
YOU KNOW,
I FELT THE PRESENCE OF DEATH.
IT WAS THERE WITH ME.
IT WASN'T REALLY AN ENTITY
LIKE YOU SEE IN THE MOVIES
AND THE CARTOONS,
BUT IT'S A PRESENCE OF DEATH.
YOU KNOW, WHEN YOU'RE DEAD,
YOU KNOW THAT THIS IS IT.
SO IT REALLY MADE ME THINK
ABOUT MY LIFE --
EVERYTHING I WANTED TO DO,
THE WAY I WAS LIVING MY LIFE.
THERE WAS NOTHING THERE.
THERE WAS DARKNESS.
THERE WAS A VOID.
THERE WAS NOTHING THERE
AND EVERYTHING HERE,
AND THAT WAS VERY FAR.
BUT THAT CHANGED MY LIFE
AFTER THAT.
YOU KNOW, IT WAS INTERESTING,
BECAUSE I WAS AFRAID OF DEATH
ALL MY LIFE,
AND THAT WAS THE BASE, PROBABLY,
FOR MY SPIRITUAL SEARCH
LATER ON IN MY LIFE,
PROBABLY BASED
ON THAT FEAR OF DEATH.
MY DEATH WAS KIND OF
MY COMPANION ALL MY LIFE,
BUT IT WASN'T MY FRIEND.
IT WAS KIND OF MORE OF AN ENEMY.
I WAS AFRAID TO DIE.
THIS EXPERIENCE
CHANGED EVERYTHING
BECAUSE IT TOOK THAT FEAR AWAY.
I UNDERSTOOD
HOW MUCH I LOVE LIFE.
HOW MUCH I JUST LOVE LIFE,
YOU KNOW?
FEEL THE SUN, LOOK AROUND,
JUST FEEL LOVE IN MY HEART.
AND I REALLY STARTED TO FIGHT
FOR MY LIFE.
AND I SAID, "I'M NOT DYING.
I'M JUST NOT DYING."
IT WAS JUST THE POWER OF MY WILL
AND LOVE TO MY LIFE
AND OF COURSE THE HELP
OF THE GREAT PEYOTE.
HE ABSOLUTELY GAVE ME
THE STRENGTH TO FIGHT.
OTHERWISE, I PROBABLY
WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO DO THAT
BECAUSE THE VENOM
PROBABLY WOULD KILL MY LIVER.
IT'S JUST TOO MUCH.
IT WAS WAY OVER
WHAT YOU CAN HANDLE.
SO THE PEYOTE
REALLY GAVE ME STRENGTH,
AND I WAS VERY GLAD THAT I DRANK
A LOT THIS NIGHT --
MORE THAN I'VE EVER DRUNK
BEFORE.
SO I WAS DEEP IN THE MEDICINE.
IT WAS VERY, VERY STRANGE
TO FEEL BOTH
POWERFUL MEDICINE -- PEYOTE --
IN YOUR BLOOD AT THE SAME TIME
AS POWERFUL VENOM --
POWERFUL SCORPION VENOM.
SO, 18 HOURS OF AGONY
AND THEN THREE DAYS OF HELL.
THOUGHTS OF DEATH.
DEATH BECAME MY ALLY.
IT BECOMES MY FRIEND.
IT BECOMES MY FRIEND IN A WAY
THAT IT JUST REMINDS ME
ALL THE TIME
ABOUT THE IMPORTANCE
OF LIVING IN THE MOMENT.
WHAT MATTERS, REALLY,
I UNDERSTOOD,
HOW IMPORTANT IT IS
TO LIVE THIS LIFE
AND HOW IMPORTANT IT IS
TO CHERISH EVERY MOMENT
AND LIVING IN THE MOMENT.
THAT'S, LIKE, A COMPLETELY
DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVE.
WHAT MATTERS IS RIGHT NOW,
RIGHT IN THIS MOMENT,
AND EVERY MOMENT FROM THAT POINT
UNTIL I DIE MY NATURAL DEATH.
AND THAT WAS
MY SHAMANIC INITIATION.
THAT WAS MY RITE OF PASSAGE,
AS THEY CALL IT.
THAT'S WHAT GIVES ME RITES TO
WORK WITH MEDICINE THE WAY I DO.
I JUST FELT THAT I HAD
TO SHARE MY STORY,
AND IT HAS BECOME
A SORT OF URGENCY.
IT HAS TO HAPPEN.
BUT I DIDN'T KNOW
ANYTHING ABOUT IT, YOU KNOW?
I DIDN'T KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT
THE ART OF WRITING OR WHATEVER.
I MEAN...NOR DO YOU HAVE ANY
CONNECTIONS IN THAT BUSINESS.
YOU KNOW,
I DIDN'T KNOW ANYBODY
WHO COULD EVEN HELP ME
TO PUT IT TOGETHER.
IN THE MEDICINE, THE MESSAGE
WAS COMING THAT, "DON'T WORRY.
"JUST GO WITH IT AND WRITE,
AND THE HELP WILL COME.
JUST TRUST.
JUST TRUST IT."
I SAID, "OKAY. THEN WHAT DO
YOU WANT ME TO WRITE ABOUT?"
YOU KNOW?
AND THEN THE MESSAGE CAME BACK
THAT IF I WRITE ANYTHING,
IT SHOULD BE ABOUT MY LIFE,
'CAUSE THAT'S THE ONLY THING
I KNOW.
I SAID, "OKAY.
BUT I NEED HELP, YOU KNOW?
SEND PEOPLE MY WAY TO HELP ME
OUT, PUT IT TOGETHER."
AND AT THAT TIME,
PRETTY MUCH SOON AFTER THAT,
I GOT A CALL FROM LIMA,
FROM A PERSON
WHO HEARD ABOUT ME.
SHE KNEW THAT THERE
WAS A RUSSIAN GUY
DOING CEREMONIES WITH SAN PEDRO.
AND SHE SAID, "I HAVE A PERSON
WHO COME IN FROM MOSCOW,
AND HE'S LOOKING
FOR SAN PEDRO MEDICINE.
WOULD YOU LIKE TO WORK
WITH HIM?"
I SAID, "SURE. SURE."
SO HE CAME.
HE ONLY HAD ONE DAY FREE,
'CAUSE EVERYTHING WAS PLANNED.
BUT ONE DAY WAS TO SEE ME.
SO WE DRANK.
IT WAS A VERY GOOD CEREMONY,
AND HE CERTAINLY FELT
THAT THIS WAS REAL,
AND HE SAID
THAT HE WOULD BE BACK.
DURING THE CEREMONY,
WE WERE JUST TALKING ABOUT
THINGS, YOU KNOW?
AND I SAID, "WHAT ARE
YOU DOING IN MOSCOW?"
HE SAID,
"WELL, I'M A PUBLISHER."
I SAID,
"WOW. THAT'S INTERESTING,
"BECAUSE I'M JUST
ABOUT TO WRITE A BOOK,
"AND I WAS THINKING
ABOUT SOMEBODY
WHO COULD HELP ME WITH THAT."
SO, HE SAID, "YEAH,
AS LONG AS YOU HAVE THE CONTENT,
WE CAN PUT IT TOGETHER."
SO I START WRITING.
FELT VERY INSPIRED, YOU KNOW.
SOMEBODY IS WILLING TO READ
MY BOOK, YOU KNOW?
MY MANUSCRIPT.
I SIT DOWN, AND I START WRITING.
SIX WEEKS, JUST DAYS AND NIGHTS,
JUST ALL THE THOUGHTS.
HE READ IT, AND HE LIKED THAT.
HE SAID,
"THAT'S DEFINITELY A BOOK.
WE'RE GOING ALONG WITH IT."
THAT WAS GOOD NEWS.
YOU KNOW, SOMEDAY,
OUT OF NOWHERE,
JUST A MONTH AGO,
I THOUGHT ABOUT WRITING,
AND NOW I HAVE ALREADY SOMEBODY
WHO'S WILLING TO PUT IT OUT,
WHO IS REALLY INVESTING IN IT
AND ADVERTISE
AND PUT IT EVERYWHERE
IN WHOLE RUSSIA.
WHOLE RUSSIA.
I APPRECIATED THE HELP.
HE APPARENTLY LIKED IT SO MUCH
THAT HE WANTED TO IMPROVE IT.
[ CHUCKLES ] HE WANTED TO MAKE
A HIT OUT OF IT, YOU KNOW?
SO HE GAVE IT TO HIS BEST EDITOR
IN HIS COMPANY,
AND I SAID, "OKAY. WHATEVER.
"I'M NOT IN A POSITION TO TELL
YOU WHAT TO DO, YOU KNOW?
THANK YOU FOR YOUR HELP,"
YOU KNOW?
BUT THE ONLY THING I SAID IS,
LIKE, "WELL, IT WOULD BE GOOD
IF I COULD READ AS SHE GOES
SO I CAN SEE WHAT SHE'S DOING."
HE SAID, "DON'T WORRY.
SHE'S SUPER-PROFESSIONAL.
"SHE WILL DO IT THE WAY
IT HAS TO BE.
"JUST RELAX AND LIVE YOUR LIFE.
WE'LL LET YOU KNOW
WHEN IT'S DONE."
ONE MONTH, TWO MONTH,
THREE MONTH PASSED, AND NOTHING.
I STILL DON'T SEE
MY MANUSCRIPT BACK.
AND WRITING BACK TO HIM
AND SAYING,
"WHAT'S THE STATUS?
"WHAT'S GOING ON?"
BECAUSE DURING THAT TIME, I WAS
DRINKING MEDICINE BY MYSELF,
AND I WAS SEEING THAT --
THERE'S SOMETHING WRONG THERE.
I WAS SEEING THAT
SHE IS MESSING WITH MY TEXT.
EVERY CEREMONY.
"I NEED TO TALK, YOU KNOW?"
SO I SAID, "MY FEELING
IS THAT THE EDITOR
KIND OF TAKING TOO MUCH TIME
FOR HER TO WORK ON THAT."
YOU KNOW, TRYING TO BE
KIND OF POLITE AND NICE.
AND "MAYBE I CAN LOOK
AND KIND OF GO ALONG WITH HER
AND JOIN THE PROCESS."
HE SAID, "DON'T WORRY.
WE'RE ALMOST THERE.
DON'T WORRY. JUST RELAX."
"OKAY."
KEPT WAITING ANOTHER MONTH,
AND THEN I JUST SAID,
"YOU KNOW WHAT?
I WANT TO SEE MY MANUSCRIPT.
I WANT TO SEE WHAT YOU DID.
THIS IS JUST TOO MUCH TIME."
I MEAN, CORRECTING THE LANGUAGE,
JUST CORRECTING SPELLING
AND GRAMMAR --
THAT SHOULDN'T TAKE THREE MONTHS
FOR A SUPER-PROFESSIONAL PERSON.
I'M SORRY,
BUT THIS IS JUST WRONG.
HE SAID, "OKAY."
SO I GOT MY MANUSCRIPT.
I READ 30 PAGES, AND I FELT...
LIKE A KNIFE
THREW INTO MY HEART.
SO I GOT MY MANUSCRIPT.
I READ 30 PAGES, AND I FELT...
LIKE A KNIFE
THREW INTO MY HEART.
IT HURT. IT HURT.
AND SHE JUST STOLE MY STORY
SHE JUST CHANGED EVERYTHING,
SHE PUT LIES IN IT,
AND SHE JUST IMAGINED THINGS
THAT NEVER HAPPENED.
IT WAS JUST SO AWFUL.
I SAID, "NO. WE'RE DONE."
I WENT TO HIM RIGHT AWAY.
I SAID, "HEY. WHAT HAPPENED?
WHERE'S MY BOOK?
THIS IS NOT MY BOOK ANYMORE."
YOU KNOW, I'M LOSING MY PATIENCE
AT THAT POINT.
FOUR MONTHS WAITING,
AND THEN I READ SOMETHING
WHICH IS NOT EVEN ME.
THE BOOK IS ABOUT TRUTH.
IT'S ABOUT SEEKING THE TRUTH,
AND IT'S MY TRUTH.
AND I CAN'T HAVE THE BOOK
FULL OF LIES BEING ABOUT TRUTH.
AND I SAID, "WOW."
AT THAT POINT, I KIND OF LOST
MYSELF AND MY PATIENCE,
AND I JUST TOLD HIM EVERYTHING
I THOUGHT ABOUT IT
AND THAT WASN'T GOOD.
I WAS VERY DIRECT,
AND, MAN, THAT JUST EXPLODED
THE WHOLE THING.
AND AT THAT TIME, HE ALREADY
INVESTED $15,000 IN THE BOOK.
HERE I AM, NOBODY.
SO WE HAD A BIG FIGHT.
AND, UH...
I WAS SO DISAPPOINTED.
I TOLD MY WIFE,
AND SHE WAS ALSO VERY UPSET
BECAUSE WE HAD A LOT OF HOPE
IN THAT,
AND THERE WAS A LOT OF HEART
IN THAT.
AND NOW...IT HURTS.
WE HAD NO MONEY.
YOU KNOW?
IT JUST WAS A TIME
WHEN I DIDN'T HAVE ANY PEOPLE.
AND MY WIFE,
SHE WAS WITH THE BABY.
SHE WAS FEEDING THE BABY.
I WAS THE ONLY ONE
WHO WAS WORKING,
AND MY ONLY WORK IS CEREMONIES.
AND AT THAT TIME,
WE DIDN'T HAVE ANY PEOPLE.
IT JUST HAPPENED THAT WAY.
THAT WAS JUST
FOR QUITE A FEW MONTHS.
SO WE WERE LIVING OFF NOTHING.
I MEAN, WE'RE TALKING
OFF NOTHING.
SO IN THAT SITUATION
WHEN YOU'RE THINKING
THAT, YOU KNOW, BY SAYING,
"YES, JUST LET THE BOOK OUT,"
AND MAKE MAYBE
$50,000 THE FIRST MONTH --
THAT'S CONSERVATIVE
BECAUSE HIS CONNECTIONS --
I MEAN, HIS FRIENDS HAD A CHAIN
OVER HUNDREDS OF STORES --
HUNDREDS OF BOOKSTORES --
IN MOSCOW ALONE,
PLUS OTHER BIG CITIES.
AND HE WAS WILLING TO PUT MONEY
INTO ADVERTISING.
THAT WAS LIKE A HIT RIGHT THERE.
IT'S JUST THE FIRST MONTH,
IT SHOULD SELL.
THAT WAS THE PLAN.
THAT'S WHY
HE EVEN WENT AS FAR --
HE KNEW HE WILL RECOUP HIS MONEY
AND EVERYTHING WILL BE FINE.
FINANCIALLY,
IT WOULD HELP US A LOT.
THAT WOULD BE FROM BEING POOR,
BEING SOMETHING COMPLETELY ELSE
WITHIN A MONTH AND JUST RELAX.
BUT I HAD TO COMPROMISE
MY STORY FOR THAT.
I HAD TO SELL IT OUT.
I HAD TO SAY YES AND LET --
AND BECOME A LIAR, YOU KNOW?
JUST BECOME A WRITER.
JUST LIKE,
IT'S NOT TRUE ANYMORE.
IT'S WHATEVER.
AND I COULDN'T DO THAT.
I JUST FELT IN MY HEART,
I JUST COULDN'T DO THAT.
AND I TOLD MY WIFE RIGHT AWAY.
SHE KNEW THAT I RECEIVED
THE MONEY, BUT I WAS HAPPY.
I TOLD HER, "I'M GOING TO READ."
AND THEN, YOU KNOW, A FEW YEARS
LATER, I'M COMING DOWN.
SHE SEES ME, LIKE,
"WHAT HAPPENED?"
AND I SAID, "YOU KNOW WHAT?
THAT'S WHAT HAPPENED.
THE EDITOR JUST STOLE MY STORY.
SHE TOOK MY PEN."
AND, UH...SHE FELL OVER
RIGHT AWAY.
SHE, YOU KNOW --
ALL OUR HOPES JUST COLLAPSED.
AND IT WASN'T JUST MINE.
OF COURSE, PART OF IT WAS MONEY
BECAUSE I HAVE A BABY TO FEED,
YOU KNOW?
WE HAVE NO MONEY.
I HAVE A FAMILY TO FEED, SO OF
COURSE, OBVIOUSLY, IT WAS THERE.
BUT NOT ONLY BECAUSE WE REALLY
PUT A LOT OF HEART IN THAT.
JUST SHE UNDERSTOOD
HOW IMPORTANT IT WAS FOR ME
TO WRITE IT,
JUST TO SPEAK UP
AND JUST LET IT OUT.
SO, SHE FELT IT,
AND SHE STARTED CRYING, AND...
BUT SOON AFTER THAT,
SHE UNDERSTOOD.
SHE UNDERSTOOD AND SUPPORTED ME,
AND THAT WAS VERY IMPORTANT...
FOR OUR RELATIONSHIP
AND IMPORTANT FOR ME
TO SEE HER TRUE SELF,
BECAUSE THIS IS WHEN YOU
ACTUALLY SEE A PERSON, YOU KNOW?
DEEP AND IN THAT TIME OF STRESS.
SO, I MET A FRIEND LIVING HERE.
I TOLD HIM THE STORY.
HE SAID, "DON'T WORRY, YOU KNOW?
"NOW YOU CAN TRANSFER THAT
INTO ENGLISH
"AND CRAFT IT THE WAY YOU WANT
IT AND PUBLISH IT
SO NOBODY CAN TELL YOU WHAT YOU
CAN SAY OR WHAT YOU CAN'T SAY."
I SAID, "NO, I DON'T THINK SO.
"I DON'T THINK
I CAN EVEN TRUST THAT.
I FEEL EXHAUSTED.
I FEEL DEPLETED."
I COULDN'T EVEN THINK
ABOUT THAT.
I DON'T EVEN THINK MY LANGUAGE
IS AS GOOD.
SO HE SAID, "NO, IT'S OKAY.
JUST -- JUST DO IT."
SO I DID A FEW CEREMONIES
TO KIND OF ASK FOR HELP.
I ASKED FOR INSPIRATION,
AND I SAT, AND I TRANSFERRED
MY BOOK INTO ENGLISH.
THE WHOLE BOOK
IS SOAKED IN THE MEDICINE.
YOU KNOW, I WROTE IT
IN THE MEDICINE.
SO, THE BOOK IS THE MEDICINE.
FIRST, OF COURSE,
THE TRUTH IN THE BOOK.
AND THAT TRUTH WAS INSPIRED
AND SOAKED IN THE MEDICINE.
THAT'S HOW I SEE IT.
AND SO FAR,
THOSE PEOPLE WHO READ IT,
THEY FELT, YOU KNOW,
THIS IS EVERYTHING.
SO I JUST WANT TO REACH
MORE PEOPLE
AND INSPIRE THEM TO DO
THEIR OWN THING, THEIR OWN ART,
WHATEVER IT IS FOR THEM TO DO.
YOU KNOW, MAYBE SOMETHING --
YOU CAN BE AN ARTIST
IN YOUR POTENTIAL,
BUT IT'S NOT REALIZED.
YOU HAVE TO FIND INSPIRATION
TO OPEN UP WITHOUT BEING AFRAID
OF SAYING SOMETHING
WHICH MIGHT UPSET SOMEONE.
IF MY BOOK UPSETS YOU,
THEN IT'S SOMETHING FOR YOU
TO PROBABLY WORK ON,
SOMETHING FOR YOU TO SEE
IN YOURSELF.
I JUST HAVE AN INTENTION
TO SHARE MY STORY
AND INSPIRE OTHER PEOPLE TO FIND
THEIR HEARTS ON THE PATH.
[ CONVERSING IN SPANISH ]
-WELL, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,
I HOPE YOU ENJOYED THE DEPTH
OF SERGEY'S STORY --
THE INITIATION OF CHOOSING
MATERIAL COMFORT OR TRUTH.
WHEN LIFE PRESENTS YOU
WITH AN OPPORTUNITY
TO MAKE EVERYTHING EASIER
AT THE EXPENSE OF YOUR WORD,
WHEN YOU CAN GAIN THE WORLD
AND LOSE YOUR SOUL,
WHICH WOULD YOU CHOOSE?
IS THERE ANYTHING
YOU'D LIKE TO ADD?
MAYBE JUST LIKE AN INTENTION
FOR THE PEOPLE,
A MESSAGE TO THE WORLD?
-MESSAGE?
WELL, MY MESSAGE
IS VERY SIMPLE --
IT'S JUST "FOLLOW YOUR HEART."
THAT'S THE MESSAGE I RECEIVED
FROM THE GRANDFATHER HUACHUMA.
IF ANYTHING, I WOULD SAY
THAT WOULD BE THE LAST
CONVERSATION IN MY LIFE,
AND I WOULD DIE
RIGHT AFTER THAT,
THAT'S WHAT I WOULD SAY --
JUST FOLLOW YOUR HEART
AND BE TRUE TO YOURSELF.
JUST FOLLOW YOUR HEART.
BE TRUE TO YOURSELF.